---
title: Explain advantages for deno instead of nodejs
date: 2023-02-22
excerpt: Advantages in use deno and nodejs
---

# Advantages of Deno over Node.js

Deno is a secure runtime for JavaScript and TypeScript that was created by Ryan
Dahl, the creator of Node.js. While Node.js is a popular choice for building
server-side applications, Deno offers several advantages over Node.js.

## Security

One of the biggest advantages of Deno over Node.js is its security features.
Deno runs all scripts in a sandboxed environment, which means that it has
restricted access to the file system, network, and environment variables. This
makes it much harder for malicious code to cause harm to the system.

Additionally, Deno has a built-in mechanism for checking permissions before
allowing access to resources. This means that developers have more control over
which permissions are granted to scripts, which further enhances the security of
the runtime.

## Speed

Deno also offers improved performance over Node.js in some cases. This is partly
due to the fact that Deno uses modern JavaScript features, such as promises and
async/await, by default. This can make code run faster and more efficiently.

Additionally, Deno has a built-in TypeScript compiler, which means that
TypeScript code can be executed directly without the need for an additional
build step. This can save time and improve performance compared to Node.js,
which requires TypeScript code to be compiled before it can be executed.

## TypeScript Support

Speaking of TypeScript, Deno has first-class support for TypeScript. This means
that developers can write TypeScript code and use all of its features, such as
interfaces and type checking, without the need for additional plugins or
packages.

This makes it easier to write and maintain large codebases, as the added type
safety can catch many errors at compile time rather than at runtime.

## Summary

In addition to these advantages, Deno also has a built-in package manager that
allows for easy installation and management of dependencies. It also has a
built-in testing framework, which can make it easier to write and run tests for
your code.

Deno's modular design also makes it easier to write and maintain reusable code,
as it encourages developers to write small, focused modules that can be easily
combined and reused in different projects.

Overall, while Node.js is still a great choice for many projects, Deno offers
several advantages in terms of security, speed, and TypeScript support that make
it worth considering for your next project.
